Updating the node operator guide (#231)
onflow/docs: docs/building-on-flow/nodes/node-operation/observer-node.mdx

---

> title: Light Client a.k.a Observer Node

Author: see preview [here](https://docs-git-vishal-nodechanges-onflow.vercel.app/next/building-on-flow/nodes/node-operation/observer-node#docusaurus_skipToContent_fallback)

Since the light client is not staked, it does not produce or execute blocks but instead serves as an _unstaked access node_ that can be easily run on any consumer-grade computer which has enough disk space.

![Observer nodes](observer.png)

## Who should run a light client?

> The light client provides an alternative to running an access node. Hence, it is ideal for Dapps that need access to the latest block data available locally e.g. a wallet application that needs to track the latest block ID and height. In addition to that, access node operators who want to scale their access node endpoints geographically can spin up geographically dispersed light clients which can talk to their staked access node and to each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The light client provides an alternative to running an access node. Hence, it is ideal for Dapps that need access to the latest block data locally on a machine they control. Examples include a wallet application that needs to track the latest block ID and height. Alternatively, access node operators that want to scale their access node endpoints geographically can spin up light clients in different regions, which can talk to their staked access node and to each other.
```
